README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/">
    <img alt="react-router" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/williamfalcon/test-tube/master/imgs/test_tube_logo.png" width="50">
  </a>
</p>
<h3 align="center">
  Test Tube
</h3>
<p align="center">
  Log, organize and parallelize hyperparameter search for Deep Learning experiments
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/test_tube"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/test_tube.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/"><img src="https://readthedocs.org/projects/test-tube/badge/?version=latest"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/blob/master/LICENSE.txt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg?maxAge=2592000"></a>
</p>
## Docs

**[View the docs here](https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/)**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Test tube is a python library to track and parallelize hyperparameter
search for Deep Learning and ML experiments. It's framework agnostic and
built on top of the python argparse API for ease of use.

``` {.bash}
pip install test_tube
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use Test Tube if you need to:

-   [Parallelize hyperparameter
    optimization](https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/hyperparameter_optimization/HyperOptArgumentParser/)
    (across multiple gpus or cpus).
-   Track multiple
    [Experiments](https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/experiment_tracking/experiment/)
    across models.
-   Visualize experiments without uploading anywhere, logs store as csv
    files.
-   Automatically track ALL parameters for a particular training run.
-   Automatically snapshot your code for an experiment using git tags.
-   Save progress images inline with training metrics.

Compatible with: - Python 2, 3 - Tensorflow - Keras - Pytorch - Caffe,
Caffe2 - Chainer - MXNet - Theano - Scikit-learn - Any python based ML
or DL library - Runs seamlessly on CPU and GPU.

### Why Test Tube

If you're a researcher, test-tube is highly encouraged as a way to post
your paper's training logs to help add transparency and show others what
you've tried that didn't work.

## Examples

### Log experiments

``` {.python}
from test_tube import Experiment

exp = Experiment(name='dense_model', save_dir='../some/dir/')
exp.tag({'learning_rate': 0.002, 'nb_layers': 2})

for step in range(1, 10):
    tng_err = 1.0 / step
    exp.log({'tng_err': tng_err})
```

### Visualize experiments

``` {.python}
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib

# each experiment is saved to a metrics.csv file which can be imported anywhere
# images save to exp/version/images
df = pd.read_csv('../some/dir/test_tube_data/dense_model/version_0/metrics.csv')
df.tng_err.plot()
```

### Optimize hyperparameters across gpus

``` {.python}
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# subclass of argparse
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(strategy='random_search')
parser.add_argument('--learning_rate', default=0.002, type=float, help='the learning rate')

# let's enable optimizing over the number of layers in the network
parser.opt_list('--nb_layers', default=2, type=int, tunable=True, options=[2, 4, 8])

# and tune the number of units in each layer
parser.opt_range('--neurons', default=50, type=int, tunable=True, low=100, high=800, nb_samples=10)

# compile (because it's argparse underneath)
hparams = parser.parse_args()

# optimize across 4 gpus
# use 2 gpus together and the other two separately
hparams.optimize_parallel_gpu(MyModel.fit, gpu_ids=['1', '2,3', '0'], nb_trials=192, nb_workers=4)
```

Or... across CPUs

``` {.python}
hparams.optimize_parallel_cpu(MyModel.fit, nb_trials=192, nb_workers=12)
```

### Optimize hyperparameters

``` {.python}
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# subclass of argparse
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(strategy='random_search')
parser.add_argument('--learning_rate', default=0.002, type=float, help='the learning rate')

# let's enable optimizing over the number of layers in the network
parser.opt_list('--nb_layers', default=2, type=int, tunable=True, options=[2, 4, 8])

# and tune the number of units in each layer
parser.opt_range('--neurons', default=50, type=int, tunable=True, low=100, high=800, nb_samples=10)

# compile (because it's argparse underneath)
hparams = parser.parse_args()

# run 20 trials of random search over the hyperparams
for hparam_trial in hparams.trials(20):
    train_network(hparam_trial)
```

### Convert your argparse params into searchable params by changing 1 line

``` {.python}
import argparse
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# these lines are equivalent
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Process some integers.')
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(description='Process some integers.', strategy='grid_search')

# do normal argparse stuff
...
```

### Log images inline with metrics

``` {.python}
# name must have either jpg, png or jpeg in it
img = np.imread('a.jpg')
exp.log('test_jpg': img, 'val_err': 0.2)

# saves image to ../exp/version/media/test_0.jpg
# csv has file path to that image in that cell
```

## Demos

-   [Experiments and hyperparameter optimization for tensorflow across 4
    GPUs
    simultaneously](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/blob/master/examples/tensorflow_example.py)

## How to contribute

Feel free to fix bugs and make improvements! 1. Check out the [current
bugs here](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/issues) or
[feature
requests](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/projects/1). 2. To
work on a bug or feature, head over to our [project
page](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/projects/1) and assign
yourself the bug. 3. We'll add contributor names periodically as people
improve the library!

## Bibtex

To cite the framework use:

    @misc{Falcon2017,
      author = {Falcon, W.A.},
      title = {Test Tube},
      year = {2017},
      publisher = {GitHub},
      journal = {GitHub repository},
      howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/williamfalcon/test-tube}}
    }

Commit message:

Enable true random search and log scale search
Randomly picking values over a grid is less efficient than actual random
search, and can resample points if `nb_samples > (high - low)`.

Log scale search is efficient for searching multiple orders of magnitude
where random search would take forever.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/">
    <img alt="react-router" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/williamfalcon/test-tube/master/imgs/test_tube_logo.png" width="50">
  </a>
</p>
<h3 align="center">
  Test Tube
</h3>
<p align="center">
  Log, organize and parallelize hyperparameter search for Deep Learning experiments
</p>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://badge.fury.io/py/test_tube"><img src="https://badge.fury.io/py/test_tube.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/"><img src="https://readthedocs.org/projects/test-tube/badge/?version=latest"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/blob/master/LICENSE.txt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg?maxAge=2592000"></a>
</p>
## Docs

**[View the docs here](https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/)**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Test tube is a python library to track and parallelize hyperparameter
search for Deep Learning and ML experiments. It's framework agnostic and
built on top of the python argparse API for ease of use.

``` {.bash}
pip install test_tube
```

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use Test Tube if you need to:

-   [Parallelize hyperparameter
    optimization](https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/hyperparameter_optimization/HyperOptArgumentParser/)
    (across multiple gpus or cpus).
-   Track multiple
    [Experiments](https://williamfalcon.github.io/test-tube/experiment_tracking/experiment/)
    across models.
-   Visualize experiments without uploading anywhere, logs store as csv
    files.
-   Automatically track ALL parameters for a particular training run.
-   Automatically snapshot your code for an experiment using git tags.
-   Save progress images inline with training metrics.

Compatible with: - Python 2, 3 - Tensorflow - Keras - Pytorch - Caffe,
Caffe2 - Chainer - MXNet - Theano - Scikit-learn - Any python based ML
or DL library - Runs seamlessly on CPU and GPU.

### Why Test Tube

If you're a researcher, test-tube is highly encouraged as a way to post
your paper's training logs to help add transparency and show others what
you've tried that didn't work.

## Examples

### Log experiments

``` {.python}
from test_tube import Experiment

exp = Experiment(name='dense_model', save_dir='../some/dir/')
exp.tag({'learning_rate': 0.002, 'nb_layers': 2})

for step in range(1, 10):
    tng_err = 1.0 / step
    exp.log({'tng_err': tng_err})
```

### Visualize experiments

``` {.python}
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib

# each experiment is saved to a metrics.csv file which can be imported anywhere
# images save to exp/version/images
df = pd.read_csv('../some/dir/test_tube_data/dense_model/version_0/metrics.csv')
df.tng_err.plot()
```

### Optimize hyperparameters across gpus

``` {.python}
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# subclass of argparse
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(strategy='random_search')
parser.add_argument('--learning_rate', default=0.002, type=float, help='the learning rate')

# let's enable optimizing over the number of layers in the network
parser.opt_list('--nb_layers', default=2, type=int, tunable=True, options=[2, 4, 8])

# and tune the number of units in each layer
parser.opt_range('--neurons', default=50, type=int, tunable=True, low=100, high=800, nb_samples=10)

# compile (because it's argparse underneath)
hparams = parser.parse_args()

# optimize across 4 gpus
# use 2 gpus together and the other two separately
hparams.optimize_parallel_gpu(MyModel.fit, gpu_ids=['1', '2,3', '0'], nb_trials=192, nb_workers=4)
```

Or... across CPUs

``` {.python}
hparams.optimize_parallel_cpu(MyModel.fit, nb_trials=192, nb_workers=12)
```

### Optimize hyperparameters

``` {.python}
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# subclass of argparse
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(strategy='random_search')
parser.add_argument('--learning_rate', default=0.002, type=float, help='the learning rate')

# let's enable optimizing over the number of layers in the network
parser.opt_list('--nb_layers', default=2, type=int, tunable=True, options=[2, 4, 8])

# and tune the number of units in each layer
parser.opt_range('--neurons', default=50, type=int, tunable=True, low=100, high=800, nb_samples=10)

# compile (because it's argparse underneath)
hparams = parser.parse_args()

# run 20 trials of random search over the hyperparams
for hparam_trial in hparams.trials(20):
    train_network(hparam_trial)
```

You can also optimize on a *log* scale to allow better search over
magnitudes of hyperparameter values, with a chosen base (disabled by
default). Keep in mind that the range you search over must be strictly
positive.

``` {.python}
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# subclass of argparse
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(strategy='random_search')

# Randomly searches over the (log-transformed) range [100,800).

parser.opt_range('--neurons', default=50, type=int, tunable=True, low=100, high=800, nb_samples=10, log_base=10)


# compile (because it's argparse underneath)
hparams = parser.parse_args()

# run 20 trials of random search over the hyperparams
for hparam_trial in hparams.trials(20):
    train_network(hparam_trial)
```

### Convert your argparse params into searchable params by changing 1 line

``` {.python}
import argparse
from test_tube import HyperOptArgumentParser

# these lines are equivalent
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description='Process some integers.')
parser = HyperOptArgumentParser(description='Process some integers.', strategy='grid_search')

# do normal argparse stuff
...
```

### Log images inline with metrics

``` {.python}
# name must have either jpg, png or jpeg in it
img = np.imread('a.jpg')
exp.log('test_jpg': img, 'val_err': 0.2)

# saves image to ../exp/version/media/test_0.jpg
# csv has file path to that image in that cell
```

## Demos

-   [Experiments and hyperparameter optimization for tensorflow across 4
    GPUs
    simultaneously](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/blob/master/examples/tensorflow_example.py)

## How to contribute

Feel free to fix bugs and make improvements! 1. Check out the [current
bugs here](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/issues) or
[feature
requests](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/projects/1). 2. To
work on a bug or feature, head over to our [project
page](https://github.com/williamFalcon/test-tube/projects/1) and assign
yourself the bug. 3. We'll add contributor names periodically as people
improve the library!

## Bibtex

To cite the framework use:

    @misc{Falcon2017,
      author = {Falcon, W.A.},
      title = {Test Tube},
      year = {2017},
      publisher = {GitHub},
      journal = {GitHub repository},
      howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/williamfalcon/test-tube}}
    }
